---
layout: post
title:  "HW6: Chapter 2"
date:   2020-09-17
categories: Software Engineering Homework
---
2.1
Suggest the most appropriate generic software process model that might be used as a basis for managing the development of the following systems. Explain your answer according to the type of system being developed:

A system to control antilock braking in a car

A virtual reality system to support software maintenance

A university accounting system that replaces an existing system

An Interactive travel planning system that helps users plan journeys with the lowest environmental impact


A system to control antilock braking in a car should use a waterfall model for managing the development of the system. This is because this particular system must perform up to safety specifications. These specifications would need to be made clear at the beginning of the development process in order to ensure that the system has all the necessary requirements. The waterfall model is best because the development process on a system like antilock is not malleable; the specifications aren’t going to change.

A virtual reality system to support software maintenance should use an integration and configuration model. This is because updates/maintenance will constantly need to be implemented. This can allow for users/clients to test and see the product before it’s finished, as well as while maintenance is occurring.

A university accounting system that replaces an existing system should use integration and configuration because the new system is going to have parts of the old system implemented in the same or different ways. This means that it’s going to be important to configure these parts and integrate them into the new system.

An interactive travel planning system that helps users plan journeys with the lowest environmental impact should use an incremental development design. This is because this software is going to be used by people, who can leave feedback on the software. The software can be released meeting specification requirements, and can incrementally add new features, and respond/address user feedback on the software.
