---
layout: post
title:  "HW8: Mythical Man Month"
date:   2020-09-29
categories: Software Engineering Homework
---



The *Mythical Man Month* pertains to the seemingly insurmountable task of organizing, managing, and catering to a group of people that are working together towards a common goal. It discusses the intricacies of what makes such a task so hard to manage both in the literal sense, and in the concept of planning and beginning to address the project.


A team must exist in harmony, or unity as the author phrases it, in order to trend toward a common goal; the exhalation that coincides with finishing something to completion in a satisfactory manner, given specifications and time constraints.  


But, how does one arrive at the end of the tunnel? What constitutes the traversal between the *concept* of what the project is going to be and the realization of the idea. How can one possibly handle the intricacies of development by themselves when it becomes increasingly complex and convoluted, and seemingly impossible to complete the given task. Well, the author stresses that this then arrived at by unity. And how does one reach unity, in the context of projects, and working with other people, and stressors, and deadlines, and mistakes? Management.


Management, being a critical component of any software project, is necessary to the inner workings of maintaining an organized chaos amidst deadlines, and deadline pushbacks. Management, being one of the most frustrating things to get right in a team setting. It seems an impossible task; catering to the needs of the project, while also acting as a point of cohesion for the team. It seems even more ominous when the heavy scrutinization falls on management as a consequence of mistakes or tardiness of project completion.


The author defines the man month as a “unit for measuring the size of a job”, but says that the concept is foolish because time is time, and it should be measured as such. Meaning that adding more people to a project that is running late has already failed. Adding more people takes more time, since they have to be brought up to speed on the project and what their role is. Thus, the importance of planning cannot be underestimated, and the quality of the knowledge of the people that are working on the project is more important than the number of people.
