---
layout: post
title:  "HW1: Chapter 1"
date:   2020-08-26 17:39:41 -0400
categories: Software Engineering Homework
---
1.3:
The four attributes that professional software should posses are acceptability, dependability and security, efficiency, and maintainability. Four other attributes that might be important for software to have are scalability, heterogeneity, cleanliness of code/readability, and trustworthiness in terms of a developer's reputation.



1.8:
I don’t believe that professional software engineers should be licensed in the same way as doctors or lawyers. Because part of creating quality software involves paying attention to security, and protecting its infrastructure and users. Because of this, I believe that mistakes that could happen are less severe. Of course there are exceptions, like software used in medicine, that have severe implications upon failure. I believe that the stakes are simply not as high as a doctor or lawyer, and therefore should not require the same type of credentialing that those who are in that type of profession might need. Of course, when people are held responsible for making sure software is secure, or creating failsafes would mean that they hopefully have the knowledge and experience to do so. Other professions that need less training in order to handle large and important tasks, like being a chef, can have severe implications if mistakes happen. One can be cooking for tons of people, and undercook chicken and it’s a disaster. There’s risk in every field, but some fields take the responsibility of maintaining other people’s livelihoods and I’d say that while developing software has its associated risks, it’s just simply not of the same caliber as performing open-heart surgery, or defending a potentially innocent person’s life.




1.9:
Public
  An engineer creates malicious software to infect computers. This is obviously severely unethical because it is not consistent with public interest.
Client and employer
  An engineer is asked to develop a program for a client or their employer for handling accounts. They intentionally have the program mishandle data, for whatever reason that suits them. This is unethical because it’s deceitful to the organization that has entrusted them with this responsibility.
Product
  A developer knowingly releasing software that is riddled with bugs and not working to resolve these problems before release is not upholding the Code of Ethics.
Judgment
  Creating a program for someone who has blatant malicious intent is not in line with upholding this clause of having integrity and being responsible for developing something that is bad
Management
  Ensuring that the people working on a project are practicing good ethics. If a project manager is aware of questionable behavior or actions in regard to development and maintenance, they are not upholding the Code of Ethics.
Profession
  Someone who creates software with malicious intent and then encourages other developers to do the same is not maintaining professional integrity.
Colleagues
  Intentionally sabotaging a colleague for whatever reason would not be very ethical.
Self
  Refusing to consistently learn in the field, or further encouraging immoral behavior in the field, is indicative of a lack of a good ethical foundation.


1.10:
It’s a difficult issue to broach because, in some attempts to prevent terrorism, the average citizen loses privacy. So the question is then, does preventing terrorism outweigh the potential breach in a person’s privacy/life. Therefore, one of the biggest ethical issues here would be making a system that is appropriate for the task, which also works to reduce the effects that this would have on the average person. The main problem that arises here is that the caliber of the situation that is being addressed, terrorism, is severe, but so is the breach of privacy. So a type of compromise would need to be made with a significant amount of thought and care. 
