---
layout: post
title:  "HW4: Reflections on Software Failures"
date:   2020-09-7
categories: Software Engineering Homework
---
  A common theme among the majority of these readings is the importance of planning in the software development process. Planning is one of the most crucial stages of software development, and when aspects of planning and design overlooked, written off, or ignored, it can result in utter catastrophe. Because a lot of decisions need to be made in the conceptual stages of the development process, attention to detail of every aspect is vital. From security and reliability to implementation and scalability, every aspect must be planned or unexpected, and dire consequences can ensue, that can, in some cases, be completely unrecoverable.


  There are endless examples of flaws that resulted as a direct consequence of corner-cutting or flawed planning. Multiple failures that NASA experienced in relation to some of their spacecrafts failing can be partially attributed to a lack of planning. A great deal of the problems that arose in those projects was a consequence of lack of communication, responsibility taken, in addition to problems surrounding specification interpretation, and unnecessarily complex system designs. These are all issues that should be addressed in the planning stages of development. From holding people accountable for their projects and contributions to having clear cut lines of communication for various aspects of the system designs.


  Another example of poor planning that resulted in a disastrous loss in terms of resources that went into the project, is the FBI’s attempt at modernizing, streamlining, and making their system more palatable for its users. From the get-go, it was clear that this project was a massive undertaking as the hope to develop a system that can handle everything that agents use daily seems insurmountable. Not even taking into account the process of digitizing necessary files, and moving the data on the previous system onto the new system with no hitches; essentially, a complete software overhaul. The project was comparatively hastily thrown together, and it was clear as the development process progressed there were severe underlying issues that appeared to have been so deep-seated in the development of the system that they were never able to be addressed appropriately. During this project, it was evident that there was a problem, principally similar to the NASA failures, with interpreting design specifications, and the various groups involved in the design not having equitable expectations and clear communication. In fact, in retrospect, it is so painfully obvious that the majority of the failures that occurred with this project were a consequence relating to the lead on the project recounting that the team felt that they were ‘feeling their way in the dark’. This is the obvious problem; there was little to no planning, poor implementation strategies, and a lack of a clearly defined vision, all of which are necessary for good software design.


  The radiation incidents detailed in the Therac-25 article and the Radiation Follies articles can be partly attributed to failures at all stages of the development process. In the case of Therac-25, failure to communicate, be held accountable, and react hastily resulted in fatal injuries. In addition to the dragging of feet that simultaneously occurred throughout the process of developing, implementing, and receiving feedback of the software. Because of the combination of these shortcomings on the software, irreversible damage was done, and it highlights the importance of planning, communication, and accountability. Similarly, the Radiation Follies article details similar incidents occurring of patients being overdosed due to faulty design. The company repeatedly dragged their feet in response to these reports and avoided taking responsibility for the fuzzy guidelines and bad implementation.


  From the readings, it can be clearly concluded that planning, strategizing, and brainstorming is not simply good practices, but absolute, undeniable, necessary steps to the software development process, and perpetuation/maintainability of their systems.
