---
layout: post
title:  "HW13: Chapter 17"
date:   2020-10-17
categories: Software Engineering Homework
---


***17.10***


Since the company is moving from a localized host where each user has their isolated application, to an environment where the user is using the same application as others simultaneously, there must be a way to distinguish the various users. They cannot  be interacting with the same ‘version’ of the application simultaneously due to how one user interacts with the application may affect how the application exists to another. There needs to be a separation for each user in such a way that the application is more of a projection of itself, and presents itself to the user in a way that the user maintains their own information specific to the application; eg. implementing a log in feature which creates a user, and a user’s respective database. Each user having a respective 'database', presents itself a multitude of risks when comparing it to a local host. This is because this now involves data manipulation that is not localized. If the data exists somewhere that is not tangible, eg. cloud based storage, and the proponent of that storage fails, what happens to the data? What if the data is sensitive to the user? How does the company protect itself from the damages that could ensue with a user's sensitive data being lost? How about the effect that it could have on the user if the service is not able to be delivered. Think, for instance, a textbook site that is continuously down during finals week for most colleges in the United States. This would have drastic implications for those who need to study, but suddenly lose access to their vehicle for studying. Sprinkle a little butterfly effect in there, and now the student has failed a class because they could not study and are not subject to an additional semester of college just for one class, costing a couple thousand dollars.


Additionally, the service is going to be at the mercy of the provider, and the provider can choose to shut down, or faults can occur with the provider that can affect the service. Thus, the company must contemplate resolving issues that arise when faced with such potentialities; the service failing to be rendered. The cause of the failure to deliver the service is going to be from a category of problems that exist as a consequence of the application migrating to a service, cloud-based model. These problems maintain roots independent of the application, and are rather, actions acted on, or as a consequence to, the availability of the service, to the sites users, or to site itself. 

A specific example that iterates the previous discussion; security. Security must be thoroughly addressed, as it is a massive risk to both the company, and potentially to the users of the service. For example, if the product is a document creator/editor that provides some unique functionality, and they are planning on implementing this as a service via a website application. The service must be paid for in a way that requires the user to enter sensitive information concerning credit card numbers and the like. If the company does not fully and properly address this by ensuring that their website is secure, or uses a vehicle for secure transactions, then the company and their users are vulnerable to a security risk.   
