---
layout: post
title:  "HW9: Chapter 8 and reflections on testing"
date:   2020-10-01
categories: Software Engineering Homework
---

***8.7***




You are a biologist who is studying micro effects on climate change in the wolf populations of Huron National Forest in Michigan. Once a day at 2am you receive a file from the wilderness weather station system that provides information that it has gathered in the past 24 hours. The information includes the following: temperature, humidity, precipitation amount (cm), barometric pressure (mm Hg), and wind (kph). You unpack this data, and run a parsing script that subsequently inserts it into a database. You breathe a sigh of relief as you thank the developers for having produced a system that cleanly contains its data via an easily palatable format. However, when you skim over the data, you notice that only the first few hours of yesterday was recorded. You have to now ping the weather station to see if it has power. You receive a ping back. Now you have to figure out why it has not recorded any data. You manually ping each system that measures things. You receive packets for each one containing seemingly accurate measurements. Why hasn’t it recorded any data? You send a command asking the system for an activity log up to the last recorded information. You notice that the log contains several memory management errors. You decide to restart the system. You want to test if the problem is fixed. You send a command telling the system to continuously record data for the next two hours and then send the information back. You look at the data, and find that it is all there. You restore the normal timer command to the system.  






***8.10***




In a previous discussion of ethics relating to software engineering and design, I discussed the overarching idea that software engineering does not consistently deal with other people’s fate, like occupations such as doctors or lawyers. But this does not imply that parallels do not exist between software engineering and the aforementioned jobs. In fact, I previously discussed the importance of software engineers that handle critical software, like medical radiation machines, needing to scrutinize themselves, their work, and their approach to ensure that they are presenting software that not only does what it is intended to do, but does so with a confidence that when a mistake occurs, it will not be a mistake that hurts someone else. With this in mind, I will now segue into the specific ethics surrounding testing budgets, and presenting a product to a customer when the budget is exhausted.



The specific question to be addressed - is the practice ethical - is not black and white. There are a plethora of factors that can cause this to be an unethical practice, yet there are also many factors that can result in an ethically conscious practice. Thus, a more apt question might be: how does one ensure that their testing budget is enough?



Let me discuss a scenario in which a testing budget is set at the beginning of the project, and when the testing stage comes around it is discovered that the product needs more work. More alterations means more testing. Oops, now the testing budget ran out, and the product has not been tested extensively. The product is now delivered to the customer. The product is not ready. In the majority of cases, this is a failure. The product will now have to go back through testing, and more resources will need to be allocated to this process. Now the company has an angry client, is significantly over budget, not just due to the original lacking testing budget, but also because they have to expedite things to meet the clients demands, which means more resources, and more time. And if I may reference the adage that we've all begrudgingly heard at least once in our lives', time is money.



Now to get to the nitty gritty ethics of this situation, can the company in good conscience present this product to their client when they know that it could have major issues? The answer is no. Regardless of what the company does, releasing a product that could have critical implications for the client, due to the companies lack of planning, is not ethical.



Imagine that you have told your friend that you are baking a cake for their birthday party. Let’s say that a week prior to your deadline, the cake needing to be ready, you put aside the exact amount of money to make the cake. You take this exact amount of money to the store. You get to the store, and you are getting the ingredients. You are looking at your list as you are totaling up everything. You realize that you have forgotten to add the cost of flour and sugar to your cake budget. You think to yourself, it’s fine I’ll make a cake without sugar and flour. You somehow make the cake, and you present this not-cake to your friend on their birthday. Your friend tells you to leave and never come back, ever again. It was really offensive. Your friend tells everyone how badly you’ve affronted them and now you’re friendless, and down the price of half of a cake.



The moral of the story here is that planning is key. Planning is going to address the amount of time that is needed to be spent at each stage of development. Planning means thoroughly examining the possibilities, including what could go wrong. Planning means allocating more than enough time to stages of the development process that must be properly, extensively, and completely addressed, like testing. If we substitute our friendly adage into this, time = money, we get this statement: Planning means allocating more than enough money, to stages of the development process that must be properly, extensively, and completely addressed, like testing. Anything less is not only indicative of bad planning, it is indicative that the company does not care about presenting a quality, and reliable product to the customer, which is simply unethical.


Anything less is not only indicative of bad planning, it is indicative that you do not care about presenting a quality, actual cake to your friend on their birthday, which is simply unethical (and really embarrassing). Don’t be a bad friend, give yourself some leeway next time so you don’t completely socially annihilate yourself, because everyone thinks you’re thoughtless.
