---
layout: post
title:  "HW3: Chapters 11 & 12"
date:   2020-09-2
categories: Software Engineering Homework
---
11.4 What is the common characteristic of all architectural styles that are geared to supporting software fault tolerance?

Fault tolerance is necessary for systems that would have severe consequences upon system failure. For example, systems that have high accessibility, or sensitive data need to have a type of fault tolerance in the event of system failure. Which can potentially allow users to still access the data without it being completely inaccessible due to various failures that could occur.


11.7 It has been suggested that the control software for a radiation therapy machine, used to treat patients with cancer, should be implemented using N-version programming. Comment on whether or not you think this is a good suggestion.

One of the common themes of producing reliable and safe software is the concept of redundancy and diversity. Redundancy is a concept that is vital to systems where failure could result in catastrophic consequences. N-version programming is a realized implementation of redundancy. As a result, N-version programming seems that it would be a realistic approach to making the control software for radiation therapy machines more reliable, and in turn safer. However, radiation therapy machines need high accessibility, in addition to protection in the event of system-critical failures. Because of this, a self-monitoring architecture might be more appropriate for designing the software, due to the severity of the consequences of potential failures. This is because you don’t want the software to continue executing if there was a software problem. Software problems can be volatile, and there is no room for volatility in the context of radiation dosing. So the system should not have fault tolerance, as it would via N-version programming.

11.9 Explain why you should explicitly handle all exceptions in a system that is intended to have a high level of availability.

A system that is intended to have a high level of availability means that a wide range of users would be using the system. When a wide range of users with different technological literacy, or reason for using the software, begin to explore the software, different exceptions can occur. In the event that a user has used the system in an unforeseeable way, and the exception is not handled, the system can behave in an unexpected way that could have various consequences, like critical system failure. Therefore, it’s important to try and catch and handle all potential ways that the system can break, so that users are less likely to cause software failures, or cause the software to behave in unexpected ways.


12.5 A train protection system automatically applies the brakes of a train if the speed limit for a segment of track is exceeded, or if the train enters a track segment that is currently signaled with a red light (i.e., the segment should not be entered). There are two critical-safety requirements for this train protection system:

The train shall not enter a segment of track that is signaled with a red light.

The train shall not exceed the specified speed limit for a section of track.

Assuming that the signal status and the speed limit for the track segment are transmitted to on-board software on the train before it enters the track segment, propose five possible functional system requirements for the onboard software that may be generated from the system safety requirements.

Five possible functional system requirements for the onboard software as a consequence of the safety requirements could include:
Having more than one way of processing/interpreting the signal status. This would help to prevent a sensor failure, which could be catastrophic. This could manifest itself in a few different, and redundant functional requirements. For example,
Having different ways of processing the input from the sensors, ie having multiple inputs of the same stimulus but having different systems process it and compare
A sound that alerts the operator if/when sensor failure has occurred
If for some reason, all of the sensors failed, or the processing of the sensors fail, engage brakes and shut down the engine
A system that governs the speed limit and compares it to the location of the train in relation to the current segment of the track’s speed limit.
 In the event that the speed of the train and the comparison do not match, alert the operator, and if no action is taken within a fixed amount of time, automatically apply the brakes
If the speed limit is exceeded and the brakes have failed, or there is no indication of speed reduction, shut down the engine.
