---
layout: post
title:  "HW10: Chapter 15"
date:   2020-10-08
categories: Software Engineering Homework
---

***15.10***


I think that the rights to reuse of developed code entirely depends upon the agreement between the contractor and the client. If the client buys the rights to the code and specifies what that means then the client has the rights to the code. If the contractor reserves rights to reuse a portion of the system, then they have the right to use that. There are a lot of variations of agreements that could be made to delegate rights. If both parties are in agreement, then it’s a non issue. However, there are situations where developers have used unique code produced by someone else without their knowledge and massively profited for it, while the other person got nothing. This is unethical. There’s not a lot to discuss here, it’s equivalent to taking a painting by a talented artist, and then adding details to it and selling it.



The issue of course becomes foggy if there isn’t a clear and precise agreement between the client and the developer of the system. I think that as software has become significantly more prevalent and its potential realized, people are significantly more adept at making agreements concerning rights to code. I think that if code is available, other people using it to create something bigger or better is an implicit commendation to the developer of the code that allowed the system to be built. On the other hand, the frustration that the original developer would have as a result of not being recognized for their work, and their addition to a potential success is not to be ignored. Ultimately, I think that if credit is given to the writer of code that helped a project succeed, or any type of success, it is more ethical.


Lastly, I feel that the type of software that is being created greatly affects the ethics of the situation. I think software that is used that enacts an overall good for people is more ethically sound in having code that was created by someone who wasn't part of the development of it. I think it's important to mention this scenario, because I think that given code that is amazing in implementation and unique, but is being hidden or withheld for the direct purpose of disallowing other people to profit it off of it is unethical as well.   
