---
layout: post
title:  "HW11: Chapter 9"
date:   2020-010-13
categories: Software Engineering Homework
---


***9.8***


Just because the parts of something can be differentiated, does not mean that without the parts the whole is cohesive. You can distinguish the types of car maintenance (oil change, tire rotation, etc.), but when one of the necessities of taking care of a machine with several working parts is neglected it can affect the functionality of the whole machine. For example, not changing the oil can result in fatally damaging the engine such that the car will require an engine replacement. Another example is not changing your summer tires to winter tires in an environment that has snow and ice for a long duration. Not adapting to the environment that the machine is in can result in severe consequences like getting into an accident and the implications of that.



This idea can be applied to software maintenance, which encapsulates addressing and resolving bugs, altering software for a new purpose, and adding or modifying pre existing functionalities. If a software is going to be implemented in an environment for which it was not originally intended, modifications for that specific institution would need to be made to meet the expected demands of the users. Any sort of functionality modification on software, must be followed by testing and bug fixes. Thus bug fixes (routine car maintenance) are persistent throughout a software’s life cycle. When and if a software is adapting to a new environment (road conditions are affected for a period of time), it will need modifications or additions (winter tires) in order to adequately succeed at its purpose. While the parts of software maintenance can be listed and explained independently, they are interwoven into the heart of the software lifecycle.



***9.10***


Does a woodworker have a professional responsibility to develop a table that can last more than a week without collapsing, even if their client did not explicitly request it? Usability of most products upon purchasing them is expected to be maintained to the expectation of the product. For example, washing a shirt should not cause it to fall apart upon the first wash. In other words, the shirt should be maintainable, and subsequently usable.



Software engineers absolutely have the professional responsibility to develop code that can be easily maintained even if it is not specifically requested of them. A fundamental portion of the software lifecycle is maintaining software. If the software is implemented in an environment that is constantly changing, or requires constant changes itself, maintainability is inherent, and the practice of maintaining the software is implicit.
